---
layout: default
title: 0 days without an accident
author: Nik Reiman
---

![Picture](/images/2012-07-09-0-days-without-an-accident.jpg)

This morning we were waken up at 6:30 by a very happy puppy climbing
up on the side of the bed and generally full of life. I made Sally a
quick breakfast and took her for a walk, where she dutifully did "her
business" without much problems. We had a great stroll around the
neighborhood, but our lucky streak broke when I came back and
discovered a pee stain on one of the rugs, presumably made during the
night. There were a few other little accidents in the same spot during
the day, so at least she's consistent (or so we thought). When Beata
decided to test leaving her alone in the apartment for a few minutes,
she didn't cry, but did pee in another part of the house. Doh!

I made a small barrier from some scrap cardboard to prevent her from
slipping away into the front hallway, but I'm expecting that we
probably won't be able to catch her again during the night. However, I
think she's getting more used to using the toilet outside (does that
even make sense?).

We really exhausted Sally today, taking her on a big trip to the park
to do some walking and people-watching, then a friend of mine dropped
by to see her, and we had a few more play sessions out back. The
garden seems to be recovering, and thankfully Sally's naturally good
recall seems to be working at keeping her out of there. Also, she
didn't cry or whine at all last night, though we've heard that this
behavior can actually start after some days.

The biggest highlight of the day was our first training session, where
we worked on "sit". It was pretty clear before we even started today
that Sally already understood the basic principle of clicker training,
which is that click (sometimes) equals treat. We started out by
clicking when she sat naturally, and then after a few times started
saying the word at the same time. Eventually she started getting it,
and when we said the word she sat fairly promptly thereafter. However,
the big test will be tomorrow when we see how well she remembers it.
