---
layout: default
title: The big day finally arrives
author: Nik Reiman
---

![Picture](/images/2012-07-07-Say-bye-to-momma.jpg)

So, today was the big moving day, and so far it seems that everything
has gone without any major problems (keep your fingers crossed for
this one). We went to the breeder's place at about 1pm, although I
only had a few hours to rest up before going as I arrived directly
from a 14 hour flight back from the US. The jet lag was quickly swept
away by our excitement of seeing Sally, who had grown quite a bit
since the last time I saw here.

After a peaceful but warm drive to our house, we introduced her to her
new home. The rear courtyard seems to be an ideal spot for running and
playing around, as well as a toilet. However, we have learned that she
is very fond of playing in the flowerbeds and shrubs, which have been
considerably flattened since her arrival today. Yeahhhh, we'll need to
talk with the neighbor downstairs who maintains that garden, though I
have a feeling the best solution is just to put up a little fence
around that area so she can't go tromping through there.

A few nice surprises today -- Sally handles great on a leash, even in
the busy sidewalks around our house. Meeting new dogs was a challenge,
but she definitely seemed more playful than scared/aggressive. Also,
there were no accidents in the house today! Of course, we still need
to make it through the night, but so far, so good. Sally also seems to
be highly food motivated, and she clearly understands the "come"
command as well has her name. Also heeling seemed very natural to her,
and on the leash there were many stretches where she walked at a
comfortable pace with the line slack.

We have also been discovering some of the various novelties in our
house which she had previously not been exposed to. One of them was
clearly the tall bushes, which she enjoyed running through. Another
one was our mirror and reflecting fridge door, which took her awhile
to comprehend was not a distant playmate. The fridge door still
catches her eye when she's drinking from the water bowl, but I assume
that this will probably pass in time. She at least has stopped
constantly visiting or barking at the mirror, so I think we're making
progress.

Well, we'll see what tonight holds. I'm still pretty jet lagged, so
I'll probably sleep solidly tonight and count on Beata to answer any
calls of nature. I'm already going into karmic debt with the late
night dog runs, it seems.
